In this lesson, we have talked about convolutional neural networks and how they could be
applied to the problems of classification and segmentation of 3D medical images.
You have had some hands-on experience with the unit and hopefully,
you have played with it and you have had a chance
to see how the network makes predictions.
Now, that we did not spend too much time on actual classification algorithms,
this is actually quite well-covered in the AI for 2D medical imaging,
less of course in this nanodegree.
I just want you to keep in mind that by no means applications
of machine learning stop at classification and segmentation problems.
There are many other very interesting things that people have looked at and that people
were thinking about when applying
deep learning or machine learning methods for radiology.
I will pull out just a few of those.
One problem which lends itself well to analysis by deep learning methods is registration.
As we have seen, registration has to do with aligning
two volumes and it could be posed as an optimization problem.
Another problem which we have talked about
is automatic discovery of reconstruction pipelines.
You have raw data which just come in off CT and MRI scanners.
You have a trade-off between the quality of raw data
and the quality of image that the physician gets in the end.
This as well could be presented as an optimization problem of
discovery of an optimal reconstruction pipeline.
Another problem which is popular in traditional computer vision is image retrieval,
finding similar images, and finding similar images which have clinical contexts.
Images that just looks similar or maybe images that have similar parameters
of a certain structures is something which is very interested to radiologists.
Another interesting problem that people have looked at is the ground truth augmentation.
This is quite relevant when you have highly imbalanced datasets, like for example,
where you're looking to do something with rare disease and it is not that
easy to get a good enough amounts of positive cases.
People have looked at generating positive cases as in generating tumors and putting
them into images of healthy patients so that your dataset is more balanced.